VeltoPHP Philosophy
-------------------

**VeltoPHP** is built on a core belief: web development should be lightweight, fast, and well-structured. We believe not every project needs a heavy or overly complex framework. Many small to medium projects thrive best with a system that is simple, clean, and scalable.

VeltoPHP is guided by these principles:
---------------------------------------

**Simplicity above all** – clear code structure with minimal hidden magic.

**Flexible by design** – work directly with RVC, or enable MVC when you need it.

**Close to native PHP** – making it easy to learn, yet powerful to scale.

**Lightweight and modular** – load only what you need, nothing more.

VeltoPHP is more than just a framework — it's a tool that empowers developers by stripping away unnecessary complexity while maintaining the standards of modern web development.


Velto by default use RVC. What is RVC?
--------------------------------------


**RVC** stands for **Route - View - Controller.**
Unlike the traditional MVC (Model - View - Controller) architecture, VeltoPHP adopts the RVC approach to provide simplicity and speed, especially in the early stages of development.

**RVC Structure**

**Route**
Defines the endpoint and the direction of the request logic.
Example:

```bash
Route::get('/', 'HomeController::index')->name('home');

#This route maps the root URL (/) to the index method inside HomeController, and names the route as home.
```

**View**
Contains the template or user interface.
Can be called directly from the route if the logic is simple enough.

```bash
<html>
    <body>
        <h1>Hello, {{ $name }}</h1>
    </body>
</html>

#The result will be <h1>Hello Velto</h1>
```

**Controller**
Holds the business logic.
Optional, and used when the route requires more complex handling.

```bash
<?php

namespace App\Controllers;

use Velto\Core\Controller;

class HomeController extends Controller
{ 

    public function index() 
    {
        $name = 'Velto';

        return view('home',['name' => $name]);
        #This line renders the home view and passes the $name variable to be used inside the template.
    }

}

```

