# Pre-requisites

Before you dive into VeltoPHP, there are a few things you’ll need to have ready. These tools and knowledge will help ensure a smooth and productive development experience.

# PHP 8.3 or Higher

**VeltoPHP** is built for modern PHP. It takes advantage of features like:

- Typed class properties
- Arrow functions
- Constructor property promotion
- Match expressions
- And more — all of which are available in PHP 8.3+.

Running on older PHP versions might cause errors or missing features, so be sure your system is up to date.


# Composer 2.x

**VeltoPHP** relies on **Composer** for managing its dependencies. Make sure you're using Composer version 2 or higher. Composer allows you to install libraries, autoload classes, and keep your packages up to date with ease.

```bash
#To check your version, run

composer -V
```

The result
```bash
Composer version 2.8.10 2025-07-10 19:08:33
PHP version 8.4.5 (/usr/bin/php8.4)
```

# Basic PHP & OOP Knowledge

**VeltoPHP** is designed to be simple, but it still expects you to know the basics of PHP and object-oriented programming **(OOP)**. You should understand:

- Classes and objects
- Inheritance
- Namespaces
- Autoloading
- Basic design patterns (e.g., MVC)

>  If you're new to OOP in PHP, it’s worth reviewing some beginner tutorials first.


# A Text Editor or IDE

You’ll need a text editor to write your code. Choose the one that makes you comfortable:

- Visual Studio Code — lightweight, popular, and full of extensions
- PHPStorm — powerful IDE with full PHP support
- Sublime Text — fast and minimal
...or any editor of your choice!

> VeltoPHP doesn’t depend on any specific tool — just write code and run it.


# Internet Connection

While **VeltoPHP** works online, you need an internet connection for:

- Installing VeltoPHP via Composer
- Updating dependencies
- Accessing documentation and community resources

> A stable connection is especially useful during initial setup and development.


Once you have everything ready, you're all set to begin your VeltoPHP journey! Let's build something awesome, one clean line of code at a time. 




