Installing VeltoPHP
-------------------

**VeltoPHP** is easy to install using Composer. Just follow these steps:
Open your terminal and navigate to the directory where you want to create your project.
Run the installation command. Replace **your-project-name** with your desired folder name.


```bash
composer create-project veltophp/velto your-project-name
```

Enter the project directory
```bash
cd your-project-name
```

Update the vendor for latest patch version:
```bash
composer update
```

Run the local development server:
```bash
php velto start
```

Why You Need to Run composer update After Installation.
-------------------------------------------------------

When you create a new project using the command below, Composer copies all the files from the veltophp/velto package into your project folder.

However, this process also includes a pre-generated composer.lock file from the Velto repository. This file locks the exact versions of all dependencies, including veltophp/velto-core.

The issue is that the composer.lock file may point to an older version of velto-core, even if a newer version with bug fixes or improvements is available.

To ensure you're using the latest and most stable version of all dependencies **(especially Velto Core)**, you must run the composer update command right after installation. This will fetch the most up-to-date packages according to your composer.json configuration.

By doing this, you'll start your project on a solid foundation with all the latest updates from the Velto development team.