Introduction
------------

In **VeltoPHP**, you are not limited to defining request logic using closures inside route files. You can organize your application's behavior using controller classes, which group related logic in one place.

For example, a **PagesController** class might handle all pasges-related routes — like showing the index, fetching specific files, or sending pages data to views.

By default, controllers are stored in the **app/** directory when using the **RVC (Route-View-Controller)** pattern.


Creating a Controller
---------------------

To quickly scaffold a new controller, use the VeltoPHP CLI command:

```bash
php velto make:controller PagesController
```

This command will create a file like:

```bash
app/Controllers/PagesController.php
```

Example of PagesController.

```bash
<?php

namespace App\Controllers;

use Velto\Core\Controller;

class PagesController extends Controller
{ 

    public function contact() 
    {
        return view('pages.contact');
    }

}

```

Controllers in VeltoPHP are just plain PHP classes. You can define any number of public methods to respond to routes.


Connecting Routes to Controllers
--------------------------------

Once your controller is ready, you can map a route to its method like this:

```bash
use Velto\Core\Route;

Route::get('/contact', 'PagesController::contact')->name('contact');

```

The syntax **'PagesController::contact'** tells VeltoPHP to call the **contact()** method in the **PagesController** class when the **/ URL** is accessed.


Summary
-------

- Controllers help **organize** related route logic in one class.

- Use php velto **make:controller** to generate a controller.

- Controllers are simple PHP classes with public methods.

- Route using the syntax **'ControllerName::methodName'**.


